they want Nike to create content around
soccer and basketball and football right
so the same goes with
you creating content that you're expert
on they want you to time your own
personal experiences what your
what they should avoid stuff
storytelling things that no one else is
talking about in essence they don't want
you to write the same thing that 10
other people wrote they want you to
write something new and you
a very important question for all the
people watching us right now is about
the tools is about the tools if you
could give us some
three to five recommended tools for
developing the SEO part of the business
what could they be so number one is
going to be Google analytics it's from
it's free tool from Google it tells you
not just what keywords you're getting
traffic from but it tells you which ones
Drive Revenue
just because you rang for a keyword
doesn't mean it's going to make you any
money if you rank number one for a
keyword and you make zero dollars who
cares this useless traffic the second
tool is answer the public remember how
you talked about these long tails like
how to pick the right stock to invest in
when you're starting off it will tell
you all those long tail keywords that
people are typing in
the third tool is Google search console
if you want to rank in SEO it tells you
what errors there are on your web page
and how Google's crawling your page and
what's wrong and what you need to fix
the four tool is vid IQ bit IQ if you
want to do really well and use that one
a lot yeah vid IQ and tubebuddy they're
both good if you want to do really well
in YouTube It's a tool that you have to
end up checking out and then the last
one that I would check out is Google
data Studio
see if you're gonna do SEO you want to
do paid advertising you want to do email
marketing you want to do social media
marketing you want to leverage all the
channels Google data studio will take
the data from all those places and you
can put it into One dashboard so you can
see all your data in one place oh let me
ask yourself it's a particular question
here
um when I produce videos for YouTube
yeah and I want to rent them organic
um I've seen a lot of companies making
good videos and then they uh pay traffic
for this video and in my point of view
when you do that you're kind of
like
mess everything about the algorithm here
and something happens and then this
video stops uh showing to the audience a
good organic video when we pay traffic
it just stops showing after we stop
using traffic
I have a lot of theories about this but
do you recommend using traffic to a
video you want to rank is there anything
related no I I don't recommend paying
for the traffic
um
Google clearly tells you that if you pay
for traffic it doesn't help or hurt your
rankings it's separate but
the issue is is when you pay you get all
these views and engagement and then you
stop paying and it goes away and it can
send negative signals
yes
yes well imagine we are starting right
now to use SEO in my company okay and I
hire something someone okay to to do it
for me working in my company what could
be like the beginners beginner's guide
for this one person to start developing
an SEO uh area in my company
sure so
the easiest way to do is we have a guide
called SEO Made Simple a step-by-step
guide and it's in Portuguese and in
English and it tells you what to do step
one step two step three but you're
actually the easiest way to get started
is we have a tool that's in Portuguese
called ubersuggest
you can add your website
and it'll crawl all your pages tell you
what's wrong it tells you how to fix it
and it'll even prioritize what to fix
first second third fourth fifth and so
forth that'll get you the best rankings
wow wow and
so
this person could use this tool yeah to
like improve my website yep and what
should be a routine for someone working
with SEO
they should be checking every day for
any errors and fixing out they should
continue to publish new content each and
every single day they should try to
build links each and every single try
today they should try to get more social
shares each and every single day but
those are the main things that someone
would focus on okay and are there any
mistakes that everybody makes when they
are like trying to rank a page or
working with SEO
there's not one mistake we see people
make but there is one that is very
common which is people create crap
content and they expect to rank well the
reason you do well on YouTube is because
your content is good if your content
suck no matter how much marketing you do
over time your rankings and your views
wouldn't be good you need to really go
out there and create amazing content and
people just forget that instead they
create the same stuff that everyone else
creates and they regurgitate the same
information instead of creating in
something new yeah but you're telling
about a good content and what what
exactly is a good content I mean it's
personal or is it yeah no no you're
right to some extent it's personal but
imagine you searching for something
you got this problem okay like how to
pick the right stock when you're
starting off or which trading platform
should I buy my stocks in
your content should answer the question
so thoroughly that the person knows what
to do next that's the first step
the second step is the content needs to
be easily digestible
so can someone quickly read it listen to
it watch it and understand the main
points
the third is it needs to have personal
experiences so with SEO Google and the
algorithm has something called e e
stands for expertise Authority and Trust
they want people to create content that
they're experts on they don't want Nike
to create content on investing they want
Nike to create content around soccer and
basketball and football right so the
same goes with
you creating content that you're expert
on they want you to time your own
personal experiences what your what they
should avoid stuff storytelling things
that no one else is talking about in
essence they don't want you to write the
same thing that 10 other people wrote
they want you to write something new and
unique
and you um you are 37 and like you have
800 employees you you operates in you
operate in
like the whole globe you have uh people
working in India right yeah we do a lot
of work for companies in India like uh
have you heard of like PWC yes PWC ESPN
do you guys have ESPN here yes yes yes
so we do a lot of marketing for like
even in Brazil we have a CNN they're
trying to make a big push in Brazil so
we're now doing their marketing in uh
Brazil very cool and you have Brazil you
have United States uh like where are you
going to from a
personal perspective I mean you've
reached a lot of success
uh especially corporate success money uh
you're famous in your Niche and you're
traveling uh to other countries I mean
what where are you going to where are
you headed
so we'll continually to expand globally
um I don't want to take the company
public we were the 21st fastest growing
company in the United States two years
ago what do I don't do you want to do it
I don't want the headache I don't have
investors okay so I'd rather stay
private we make good money I don't care
for the headache I've already made good
money in my past so I don't need more
um we're continually buying up a lot of
companies we want to do two three
Acquisitions next year
um and the other thing that I want to do
is I think eventually we'll have a
company that has
five ten thousand employees as we get
into more countries but my big personal
goal is to give back more
like the money is not that more
meaningful I make more money would I
have another bigger home I already have
a house in Vegas that's expensive my
house in Vegas I think is 18 million
dollars my house in Beverly Hills once
I'm fully done building it is around 20
million so that's 38 million dollars in
real estate how many more homes do I
need right how many more cars do I need
you know my big thing that I want to do
I have children one's a one-year-old
one's three years old
we want to give all our money and show
our children that there's more to money
than just keeping it for yourself why
not use it to help people throughout all
the world you know I've been to Brazil
I've been to like favelas you know so
many kids are struggling why not help
them out and give them a better life why
not give people better lives in America
India UK everywhere around the world why
not try to use the money to try to solve
diseases and problems instead of just
giving my kids money and having them be
lazy and doing nothing
did you have this point of view when you
didn't have money or is it something
that when I discovered when I had no
money I all I wanted to do is become
rich and I remember when I had no money
my first goal was I wanted to be a
millionaire then I wanted to be a 10
millionaire then I want to be 100
millionaire and then billionaire but it
doesn't stop that's the thing what point
does enough you're not going to use the
money you know it's funny I was talking
to my wife
during covet I started flying on private
planes so instead of going to the
airport and flying commercial I would be
in the plane all by myself and sometimes
we'd get really big planes that can fit
18 20 people right usually not 20 but 17
18 people the max
um somewhere around there
and
I was spending all this money and there
was it was never ending what do I buy
next Yachts big boats I don't need any
of that and then my wife and I came to
the realization is we're happier when we
actually help other people instead of me
spending a hundred thousand dollars or
call it if I came from uh Las Vegas to
Sao Paulo If I flew private it would
cost me maybe
200 250 000 so maybe a million uh Ray
eyes that's a lot of money
and instead of spending it on a plane to
go back and forth I'll go to the airport
I'll sit in a normal plane and I rather
donate the money because when I see
other kids living Better Lives it makes
me happy
but it I didn't get there until I
started to make money and I have it and
I'm not rich like Elon Musk or Bill
Gates that's a whole new level I don't
have that kind of money but I have
enough where I don't have to worry my
wife doesn't have to worry my kids don't
have to worry
um and we just found that we're happier
helping other people
um
and that's very beautiful to hear and
you'll talk a lot about helping children
in India here in Brazil and it makes me
think like how was your childhood it was
hard or no my childhood was pretty good
my parents didn't have money we grew up
in a housing that was uh for people who
don't have much money
but my family helped us out so my my
mom's Brothers helped us my dad's family
brothers and sisters helped him so my
parents had help from their siblings so
my upbringing wasn't bad I grew up
middle class
and I was really happy but I wanted to
be rich and I never really realized that
when you have more money you keep buying
things and it doesn't make you happy I
remember I went to the store bought a
watch for maybe five six hundred
thousand Ray eyes
that's a lot of money for one watch
happy for one day and then I was like
guys just a watch I don't even wear it I
haven't worn it for maybe three four
years
but then when I helped some kid who's
who you know needs eye surgery or
doesn't have clothes to go to school you
change their lives that makes me happy
not for one day it makes me happy for
life you just gotta keep doing it I look
at that as investing I'm investing in
the future of planet Earth wow
and you do you have faith in something
bigger
and
I I don't know if I really have
I have faith in mankind that's probably
the best way to put it and what I mean
by that is
I believe people can do so much to help
more people out you just have to give
more people opportunities so what my
wife and I have learned is when we help
more people and they start doing better
than because they realize how much
better their life was because other
people helped them then they start
helping others as well when they grow
older and it creates this big chain and
hopefully more and more people help each
other out
okay okay
you do have like a first of all
congratulations on on this thinking I
think uh
a lot of people should uh be happier if
they discovered how good and satisfying
it is to help others
especially when you can help a kid a
child and I I was very helped by a lot
of people and I I think uh what explains
the small success I had
uh is more related to the things I don't
control then the things I do control
uh but the things I do control I watch a
lot yeah and the things I don't control
I think a lot of people help me out and
then I try to help others especially
entrepreneurs because I think it's like
a chain of people helping others and
it's very good for the economy
the health the family and the country
and the war the planet as you said
and before we finish here uh new do you
have like a final conclusion hint tip
suggestion or something that you would
leave us to help especially on the
business part of it on how to operate a
business how to make a better SEO how to
acquire more clients make better
Acquisitions with lower costs
Acquisitions do you have like a final
final conclusion yes I'm gonna give you
three things for the finale okay number
one is no one has all the answers
so in business it doesn't matter if
you've done it 10 times or for your
first time everyone's gonna make
mistakes but if you avoid making the
same mistake over and over again at the
end you'll be left with the stuff you
should be doing
the second thing is hire amazing people
invest in Talent invest in good labor
and pay them the money they need to be
successful so that way they give it all
in your company and when I say pay for
good talent
when you're hiring an employee
don't just try to hire people who are
the cheapest hire people who are already
successful in this space and have solved
the problems that you're trying to solve
and the third thing is with marketing if
you want to get a lot of traffic
experiment
there's algorithms YouTube has algorithm
Tick Tock has an algorithm Google has
algorithm everyone does
their algorithms constantly change
YouTube's algorithm from what it was six
seven years ago is different than what
it is today try to run a marketing
experiment once a week so you can learn
what works and what doesn't at my Ad
Agency NP digital we're running
experiments for our clients at least
once a week and we're learning from it
but what's interesting is we'll run
experiments with our Brazilian clients
our clients in America our clients in
the UK India and so forth on so you can
see all these patterns and figure out
what works and then you apply it to
businesses throughout all the world so
that way you can grow your traffic
faster it doesn't matter how
how long you've been doing marketing for
because algorithms change so often the
best way to do improve and get more
traffic is to run at least one new
marketing experiment a week that could
be try to create a new form of content
maybe try a new social Channel Try to do
use infographics to get links or try to
start a podcast because it's not that
competitive right there's a lot of
people want to listen to podcasts but
not that many people who create them yet
yes wow very good uh finale you just
gave us new and new for uh the people
willing to get to know you better and
know your company better like do you
have any uh social media to leave the
audience to follow you and maybe learn
more from you yeah they can always go to
Neil Patel on social media we also have
the social handles uh NP digital so n is
in Neil p as in Patel and then digital
and we also have them all in different
languages including Portuguese wow so do
you have like an Instagram link it in
and all this social media in different
languages yes in different languages
yeah so you produce content in
Portuguese and you also have a English
an English account yes and same with
other languages okay and you we usually
uh leave a a gift for our audience we
call them the cousins it's Primus and
Primus do you have like a book you can
sign for us or something
uh I don't have a book here but you have
a book right yes I have a book can you
send us one signed book for
for a gifting yes I can do it okay
sounds good okay so I'll talk to the
Brazilian audience right now to tell
them the specifics and make the the
conclusion here but Neil thank you so
much like talking to you today it's an
honor uh I got to know you maybe I don't
know seven years ago eight years ago I'm
not sure and I never imagined I would
talk to you so it's very important for
me thank you so much new thank you for
having me and you've had an amazing
career and I know the next five years
will be even better for you